---
title: Setting Up a Proxy/”VPN” using SSH over SSL.
author: Seshan Ravikumar
type: post
date: 2019-03-24T21:53:48+00:00
url: /2019/03/24/59/
classic-editor-remember:
  - block-editor
categories:
  - Uncategorized

---
Hey! It&#8217;s been a little while, but don&#8217;t worry, there is exciting stuff coming soon!  
In the mean time, a friend wanted a tutorial on how to run a proxy (&#8220;VPN&#8221;) using SSH over SSL. This makes a really nice setup that can go through pretty much any firewall, as the SSH and it&#8217;s proxied traffic appear as regular SSL web traffic.  
  
To set this up, you&#8217;ll need a Linux server (Ubuntu 18.04 in my case) with port 443 open (Note: if you want to run this alongside a normal web server, you&#8217;ll want to look at sslh. It will run behind stunnel in this setup, and route traffic based on SSH or web).  
Something like a DigitalOcean droplet is a cheap and effective choice.  
Commands that start with a &#8220;#&#8221; mean run with sudo. Don&#8217;t type the &#8220;#&#8221; or &#8220;$&#8221;.  
1. 

<blockquote class="wp-block-quote">
  <p>
    # apt install stunnel4
  </p>
</blockquote>

2. 

<blockquote class="wp-block-quote">
  <p>
    # openssl genrsa 1024 > stunnel.key
  </p>
</blockquote>

3. 

<blockquote class="wp-block-quote">
  <p>
    # openssl req -new -key stunnel.key -x509 -days 1000 -out stunnel.crt
  </p>
</blockquote>

4. 

<blockquote class="wp-block-quote">
  <p>
    # cat stunnel.crt stunnel.key > stunnel.pem <br /># mv stunnel.pem /etc/stunnel/
  </p>
</blockquote>

5. Edit the following file&#8230; 

<blockquote class="wp-block-quote">
  <p>
    # nano /etc/stunnel/stunnel.conf
  </p>
</blockquote>

and place the text&#8230; 

<pre class="wp-block-preformatted">pid = /var/run/stunnel.pid
cert = /etc/stunnel/stunnel.pem
[ssh]
accept = 0.0.0.0:443 
connect = 127.0.0.1:22 
</pre>

6. 

<blockquote class="wp-block-quote">
  <p>
    # nano /etc/default/stunnel4
  </p>
</blockquote>

and set the like Enabled = 0 to Enabled = 1 

7. Final steps on the server: 

<pre class="wp-block-preformatted"># systemctl restart stunnel4

# systemctl enable stunnel4
</pre>

**Note, you&#8217;ll also want to set &#8220;GatewayPorts&#8221; to &#8220;yes&#8221; in** _ **/etc/ssh/sshd_config.**_

<hr class="wp-block-separator" />

Now you need to setup SSH on your *nix client (Linux or macOS).  
1. Edit your SSH config&#8230; 

<blockquote class="wp-block-quote">
  <p>
    $ nano ~/.ssh/config
  </p>
</blockquote>

And put in the following content: 

<pre class="wp-block-preformatted">Host SOME_NAME
User SERVER_USERNAME
ProxyCommand socat - OPENSSL:SERVER_IP:443,verify=0
</pre>

**_If socat is giving you problems (&#8220;E SSL\_connect(): error:1409441A:SSL routines:ssl3\_read_bytes:tlsv1 alert decode error&#8221;), use this ProxyCommand instead:_**

<pre class="wp-block-code"><code>ProxyCommand openssl s_client -connect SERVER_IP:443 -quiet -servername YOUR_DOMAIN</code></pre>

Replace SOME\_NAME with some name to identify the server. SERVER\_USERNAME is the username of an account of the server, and SERVER_IP is the server IP or domain. 

**The &#8220;-servername&#8221; argument is apparently needed on newer distros**, just put the domain name that is registered to the certificate you used.  
On macOS you&#8217;ll want to install socat using &#8220;brew install socat&#8221; (make sure Homebrew is installed).  
  
2. Try connecting to the server. 

<blockquote class="wp-block-quote">
  <p>
    $ ssh SOME_NAME
  </p>
</blockquote>

If it works, awesome! If not, try googling the issue/error. 

3. Download sshuttle (&#8220;brew install sshuttle&#8221; on macOS). Then&#8230; 

<blockquote class="wp-block-quote">
  <p>
    $ sshuttle -r SOME_NAME -x SERVER_IP 0/0
  </p>
</blockquote>

And there you go! Your system traffic should now be routed through sshuttle. 

<hr class="wp-block-separator" />

This is a really nice way to be able to go through all sorts of firewalls, and is actually really fast (since it&#8217;s your own server). As a side note, you can also use &#8220;ssh SOME_NAME -D 5222&#8221; to start a SOCKS proxy on port 5222. This is pretty useful, since it&#8217;s faster than SSHuttle. You&#8217;ll need to set the proxy setting in, for example, FireFox&#8217;s settings page. For other apps, use proxychains.